# Fly_Guts_for_Fuels
How about we try use bioinformatics to make economically feasible and more efficient the production of second generation (cellulosic biofuels)?

Cellulosic and lignocellulosic (second-generation) biofuel production has emerged as a sustainable and alternative energy option to the fast depleting, ecologically unfriendly petroleum-based fuels. Second-generation biofuels are produced from energy crops such as switchgrass, industrial and agricultural wastes, and crop residues, and therefore, are not a threat to food security.
  
The Black Soldier Fly (Hermetia illucens; BSF) is a useful tool in the valorization of organic biomass and other biodegradable wastes. We intend to use the microbes present in the Black soldier Fly (BSF) larvae gut to explore their broad degradation capabilities under different dietary conditions so that we can be able to apply this knowledge to break down the lignocellulosic fractions that are present in second-generation biofuel feedstocks. Additionally, metatranscriptomics analysis from RNA-sequencing derived data will enable us to profile the microorganisms present in the BSF larval gut as well as the dominant functions observed. Screening of Carbohydrate Active Enzymes (CAZYmes) and Polysaccharide Utilization Loci (PULs) will give a better understanding of enzyme families with functions in structural modification of complex carbohydrates and groups of organisms working together to perform these functions respectively. This will enable us to acquire a deeper understanding of the degradative enzymes which could be further applied in the hydrolysis of these complex sugars as well as other industrial applications, an action that could significantly lower the costs of second-generation biofuel production, increase the biofuel production efficiency, and lessen the imminent threat on food security by first generation feedstocks if successfully scaled.
